Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture on collections collections are a way of grouping and organizing
things if you will.
Collecting them into one place so if you have a look at the outliner in the top right here we see that
we've got a collection which is this a box file type object lighting and camera.
And if we open up we see lights and cameras within and we've got our bowling objects which contains
our ball, Our pin.
And this plane at the bottom.
We should probably rename that as well.
So let's hop on over back to our bowling scene and find out more.
OK so this is where we left off everything before we've just got one single collection.
Of course we've got a scene collection at the top here.
So we have this collection that's got everything in it.
And looking at everything we could have a collection within the collection as well.
That's always a possibility and sometimes a useful thing to do.
So really what we want to do is make sure that all of these objects are within their own collection.
And that will enable us to do several things including if we append this to another file we don't have
to bring in everything individually again.
We can literally append the collection of objects.
So let's start off with these pins I'm literally going to draw the box around them if I've got border select
not turned on you can turn it's a select box over here or indeed use the w key to cycle through.
So I've got all of these pins selected if I press the M key it will bring up moved to new collection.
We can also go to the object menu collection and then we've got a series of options here as well.
Now we've already got a collection that exists what we can do is move things to that collection so i'm going
to click on one of my pins, press the M key.
Create a new collection and then a type in pins.
In this case press enter and then click Okay.
And now we should find if I just minimize collection we've got pins with bowling pins 0 0 5 in it.
Brilliant.
So let's go ahead and select these other ones as well.
I'm just going to manually do it for the moment because that's going to be just as quick as doing any
other way.
And press M again and now pins is one of the options because we've already created it so we can add
the rest of the bowling pins to it.
Perfect, right.
How about the bowling ball and this ground plane that we've got here. In factr it's still just called plane
let's call it alley.
That's one of the things we need to do.
Let's add those.
Now we don't want to add them to pins but we could add them to a scene called bowling.
So let's at them there/
Or bowling objects I think it would be a better name for our collection.
So it's very easy at this point to forget that you need to click okay as well.
I've misspelled that so I can double click over on the right hand side in the outline and put the S
on the end there and I'm going to click and drag pins and puts it inside this other collection so we
can have nested collections and this is useful because now at any point I can right click on that collection.
I've got a series of options and one of them is to select objects.
So that will select everything that's within the bowling objects or I could come in two pins for instance
and select objects or just deselect the pins if I wanted to.
So that is really really useful for organising our scene.
And there are quite a few things you could do a collections.
This is just an introduction to them.
So you can start organizing your work.
And now it's time for your challenge.
Okay.
Your challenge make sure that you have a bowling objects collection that has both the alley and the ball
in it.
Once you've done that also create a pin collection, nest the pin collection within the bowling objects
collection and then finally add your camera and your light to their own collection as well.
Pause video and give that a go. Okay everybody, Welcome back.
Let's go and hop on over into blender and create our collections OK.
So I'm going to go back to the beginning here so I can go through it step by step.
So in this particular case what I'm going to do is I'm going to highlight the ball and our alley.
Now I've not hit the camera itself.
If I'd done that box just a little bit too large the camera would have also been selected.
So I'm going to add those to our bowling objects collections of bowling objects and then once I've done
that it's just a matter of adding everything else.
So the pins themselves got to be careful not select the camera.
I could rotate out and away, But
I won't for the moment, I'm going to create a new collection called pins, now here you may have already
noticed that the final collection that we need to make we don't actually need to select anything because
those are the only two objects currently left in my scene.
You may have other objects in there in which case you might want to go ahead and create them but I can
just rename this other collection camera and lighting.
There we go.
So I've got my three scenes.
The only thing I haven't done yet is nested pins within bowling objects.
And there we go.
We've got camera and lighting, our bowling objects and we're going to save my file.
Brilliant.
So nice straightforward challenge.
I do like these type of challenges where it's really easy to get to the end of them but I cannot stress
the importance about organization and naming.
We've already mentioned naming a couple of times but organization is key as well.
You will find that if you create a big project it's very easy to end up with lots and lots and lots
of lots of different objects doing different things and then later on when you pick it up perhaps in
a week's time you don't know what anything is and where it is and what it's supposed to be doing.
And that can really really slow down your productivity.
So I would suggest organizing things as you go.
So that's it for this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.